denidin-app/README.md, before:

# DeniDin - WhatsApp AI Chatbot with Memory

DeniDin is a WhatsApp chatbot with a sophisticated two-tier memory system. It receives messages through Green API, forwards them to OpenAI with conversation context and semantic memory recall, and returns intelligent, context-aware responses.

## Features

### Core Features (v1.0)
- ✅ Receive WhatsApp messages via Green API polling mechanism
- ✅ Forward messages to ChatGPT (OpenAI GPT-4o-mini)
- ✅ Send AI responses back to WhatsApp
- ✅ Sequential message processing (maintains order)
- ✅ Configurable polling interval and AI parameters
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling and logging
- ✅ Message truncation for long AI responses (4000 char limit)

### Memory System (Phases 1-6 Complete)
- ✅ **Session Management**: Conversation history with UUID-based sessions
- ✅ **Long-term Memory**: Semantic memory using ChromaDB with OpenAI embeddings
- ✅ **Automatic Recall**: AI automatically recalls relevant memories during conversations
- ✅ **Session Expiration**: 24-hour session timeout with automatic transfer to long-term memory
- ✅ **Startup Recovery**: Recovers orphaned sessions on bot restart
- ✅ **Role-based Token Limits**: 4,000 tokens for clients, 100,000 for godfather
- ✅ **Commands**: `/reset` to manually clear session and transfer to long-term memory
- ✅ **Feature Flag**: Controlled by `enable_memory_system` flag for safe deployment

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+ (Python 3.11 recommended)
- WhatsApp Business account with Green API credentials
- OpenAI API key

## Setup Instructions

> **Note for AI Assistants:** 
> - All commands must be run from `/Users/yaronl/personal/DeniDin/denidin-bot/` directory
> - Always prefix commands with: `cd /Users/yaronl/personal/DeniDin/denidin-bot &&`
> - Main git branch is `master`, not `main`

### 1. Clone and Navigate

```bash
cd denidin-bot/
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

```bash
python -m venv venv

# Activate virtual environment:
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Configure Credentials

Copy the example configuration file:

```bash
cp config/config.example.json config/config.json
```

Edit `config/config.json` and replace the placeholder values:

```json
{
  "green_api_instance_id": "YOUR_GREEN_API_INSTANCE_ID",
  "green_api_token": "YOUR_GREEN_API_TOKEN",
  "openai_api_key": "YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY",
  "ai_model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
  "system_message": "You are a helpful AI assistant named DeniDin.",
  "max_tokens": 1000,
  "temperature": 0.7,
  "log_level": "INFO",
  "poll_interval_seconds": 5,
  "max_retries": 3
}
```

**Configuration Options:**

- `green_api_instance_id`: Your Green API instance ID (from Green API dashboard)
- `green_api_token`: Your Green API token
- `openai_api_key`: Your OpenAI API key
- `ai_model`: OpenAI model to use (e.g., "gpt-3.5-turbo", "gpt-4o-mini")
- `system_message`: System prompt for the AI assistant
- `max_tokens`: Maximum tokens in AI response
- `temperature`: AI creativity level (0.0-1.0)
- `log_level`: Logging verbosity ("INFO" or "DEBUG")
- `poll_interval_seconds`: How often to check for new messages (default: 5)
- `max_retries`: Number of retry attempts for failed API calls
- `data_root`: Root directory for data storage (default: "data")
- `godfather_phone`: WhatsApp ID of godfather user (format: "PHONE@c.us")

**Memory System Configuration (Optional):**

```json
{
  "feature_flags": {
    "enable_memory_system": false
  },
  "memory": {
    "session": {
      "storage_dir": "data/sessions",
      "max_tokens_by_role": {
        "client": 4000,
        "godfather": 100000
      },
      "session_timeout_hours": 24
    },
    "longterm": {
      "enabled": true,
      "storage_dir": "data/memory",
      "collection_name": "godfather_memory",
      "embedding_model": "text-embedding-3-small",
      "top_k_results": 5,
      "min_similarity": 0.7
    }
  }
}
```

Memory system is **disabled by default** (`enable_memory_system: false`). To enable:
1. Set `enable_memory_system: true` in config
2. Configure `godfather_phone` with the admin WhatsApp ID
3. Restart the bot

See [Memory System Usage](#memory-system-usage) section below for details.

**⚠️ IMPORTANT:** Never commit `config/config.json` to version control! It's already in `.gitignore`.

### 5. Run the Bot

```bash
./run_denidin.sh
```

The bot will:
1. Load configuration from `config/config.json`
2. Check for existing bot instances (prevents duplicates)
3. Start polling Green API for incoming WhatsApp messages
4. Forward messages to ChatGPT
5. Send AI responses back to WhatsApp
6. Log all activity to `logs/bot.log`

**Alternative (manual start):**
```bash
python3 denidin.py
```

### 6. Stop the Bot

```bash
./stop_denidin.sh
```

This will gracefully shut down the bot (sends SIGTERM, waits for cleanup).

**Alternative:**
Press `Ctrl+C` if running manually, or use `kill -TERM <PID>`.

## Architecture

### System Overview

```
┌─────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────┐
│  WhatsApp   │        │    DeniDin Bot       │        │   OpenAI     │
│   Business  │◄──────►│    (denidin.py)      │◄──────►│   ChatGPT    │
│   Account   │  Green │                      │  API   │              │
│             │  API   │  ┌────────────────┐  │        │              │
└─────────────┘        │  │ SessionManager │  │        └──────────────┘
                       │  │ (Conversation) │  │
                       │  └────────────────┘  │
                       │          │           │
                       │          ▼           │
                       │  ┌────────────────┐  │
                       │  │ MemoryManager  │  │
                       │  │  (ChromaDB)    │  │
                       │  └────────────────┘  │
                       └──────────────────────┘
```

### Component Flow (with Memory)

```
1. WhatsApp Message Received (Green API Polling)
        ↓
2. WhatsAppHandler.process_notification()
        ↓
3. Validate message type (text only)
        ↓
4. SessionManager.add_message(role="user")
        ↓
5. SessionManager.get_conversation_history()
        ↓
6. MemoryManager.recall() - Semantic search
        ↓
7. AIHandler.create_request() (with history + memories)
        ↓
8. OpenAI API call (with retry logic)
        ↓
9. SessionManager.add_message(role="assistant")
        ↓
10. AIHandler.get_response()
        ↓
11. Truncate if >4000 chars
        ↓
12. WhatsAppHandler.send_response()
        ↓
13. Log message tracking (message_id, timestamp)
```

### Key Components

- **denidin.py**: Main entry point, bot initialization, signal handling, /reset command
- **WhatsAppHandler**: Green API integration, message validation, response sending
- **AIHandler**: OpenAI integration, request formatting, error handling, memory integration
- **SessionManager**: Conversation history, token management, session expiration
- **MemoryManager**: ChromaDB semantic search, embedding generation, long-term storage
- **BotConfiguration**: JSON/YAML config loading, validation
- **Logger**: Rotating file + console logging with INFO/DEBUG levels
- **MessageState**: Track last processed message to prevent duplicates

## Project Structure

```
denidin-bot/
├── denidin.py                  # Main entry point (223 lines)
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # This file
├── DEPLOYMENT.md              # Production deployment guide
├── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
├── .pylintrc                  # Linter configuration
├── mypy.ini                   # Type checker configuration
├── config/
│   ├── config.example.json    # Example configuration (template)
│   └── config.json            # Actual credentials (gitignored)
├── src/                       # Source code (500+ statements, 89% coverage)
│   ├── handlers/
│   │   ├── ai_handler.py      # OpenAI API + memory integration
│   │   └── whatsapp_handler.py # Green API integration
│   ├── memory/
│   │   ├── session_manager.py  # Conversation history
│   │   └── memory_manager.py   # ChromaDB semantic memory
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── config.py          # Configuration model
│   │   ├── message.py         # Message models
│   │   └── state.py           # State persistence
│   └── utils/
│       ├── logger.py          # Logging setup
│       └── state.py           # State utilities
├── data/                      # Runtime data (gitignored)
│   ├── sessions/              # Session JSON files
│   ├── memory/                # ChromaDB database
│   └── constitution/          # Constitution files
├── tests/                     # 212 tests (100% passing)
│   ├── unit/                  # 145 unit tests
│   ├── integration/           # 67 integration tests
│   └── fixtures/              # Test data
├── logs/                      # Application logs (gitignored)
└── htmlcov/                   # Coverage reports
```

## Memory System Usage

### Overview

The memory system consists of two layers:

1. **Short-term Memory (SessionManager)**: Stores recent conversation history per session
   - Automatically manages conversation context
   - Role-based token limits (4K for clients, 100K for godfather)
   - 24-hour session timeout
   - JSON storage in `data/sessions/`

2. **Long-term Memory (MemoryManager)**: Semantic memory across all conversations
   - ChromaDB vector database
   - OpenAI embeddings (text-embedding-3-small)
   - Automatic recall based on message relevance
   - Persistent storage in `data/memory/`

### How It Works

**For Users:**
1. Send messages normally via WhatsApp
2. Bot automatically maintains conversation context
3. Relevant past information is recalled automatically
4. No special commands needed for basic usage

**Session Lifecycle:**
```
New Message → Create/Resume Session → Add to History
                      ↓
              Get Recent History (within token limit)
                      ↓
              Search Long-term Memory
                      ↓
              Send to AI (history + memories + new message)
                      ↓
              Store AI Response in Session
                      ↓
              After 24h inactive → Transfer to Long-term Memory
```

### Commands

#### `/reset` - Clear Session and Transfer to Memory

Manually ends the current session and transfers it to long-term memory.

**Usage:**
```
/reset
```

**What happens:**
1. Current session is cleared
2. All conversation messages are summarized
3. Summary is stored in long-term memory
4. Fresh session starts
5. Confirmation message sent

**When to use:**
- Want to start a completely fresh conversation
- Finished a major topic and moving to something new
- Session feels cluttered or confusing

**Note:** Sessions automatically expire after 24 hours of inactivity, so manual `/reset` is rarely needed.

### Configuration

**Enable Memory System:**
```json
{
  "feature_flags": {
    "enable_memory_system": true
  },
  "godfather_phone": "972501234567@c.us"
}
```

**Memory Settings:**
```json
{
  "memory": {
    "session": {
      "max_tokens_by_role": {
        "client": 4000,
        "godfather": 100000
      },
      "session_timeout_hours": 24
    },
    "longterm": {
      "enabled": true,
      "top_k_results": 5,
      "min_similarity": 0.7
    }
  }
}
```

**Key Settings:**
- `max_tokens_by_role`: Controls how much conversation history to include
  - Client: 4,000 tokens (~15-20 message exchanges)
  - Godfather: 100,000 tokens (~300-400 exchanges)
- `session_timeout_hours`: When to auto-expire sessions (default: 24)
- `top_k_results`: Max memories to recall (default: 5)
- `min_similarity`: Minimum relevance score for recall (default: 0.7)

### Data Storage

**Session Files:**
- Location: `data/sessions/{session_id}/session.json`
- Format: JSON with messages, timestamps, metadata
- Cleanup: Expired sessions moved to `data/sessions/expired/`

**Long-term Memory:**
- Location: `data/memory/chroma.sqlite3`
- Format: ChromaDB vector database
- Embeddings: OpenAI text-embedding-3-small

**Backup Recommendations:**
- Backup `data/sessions/` for conversation history
- Backup `data/memory/` for long-term memories
- Both directories are gitignored by default

## Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
python3 -m pytest tests/ -v

# Run unit tests only
python3 -m pytest tests/unit/ -v

# Run integration tests only
python3 -m pytest tests/integration/ -v

# Run with coverage report
python3 -m pytest tests/ --cov=src --cov-report=html
# View coverage: open htmlcov/index.html
```

### Manual Testing

Send a WhatsApp message to your business number. DeniDin should:
1. Receive the message via Green API
2. Forward it to ChatGPT
3. Send the AI response back to WhatsApp
4. Log the interaction in `logs/denidin.log`

## Code Quality

- **Pylint Score**: 8.35/10
- **Test Coverage**: 89% (323 statements, 37 missed)
- **Type Hints**: Comprehensive (mypy configuration included)
- **Documentation**: Google-style docstrings on all public methods

Run quality checks:
```bash
# Linter
python3 -m pylint src/ denidin.py --rcfile=.pylintrc

# Type checker
python3 -m mypy src/ --config-file=mypy.ini
```

## Logging

- **INFO level**: Application events, incoming/outgoing messages, errors
- **DEBUG level**: Detailed parsing, state changes, API request/response details
- **File**: `logs/denidin.log` (rotates at 10MB, keeps 5 backups)
- **Console**: stderr output with same format

Change `log_level` in `config/config.json` to switch between levels.

## Troubleshooting

### Bot doesn't start

**Problem**: Bot exits immediately with error message

**Solutions**:
- Check that `config/config.json` exists: `ls -la config/`
- Verify JSON syntax is valid: `python3 -m json.tool config/config.json`
- Ensure all required fields present: `green_api_instance_id`, `green_api_token`, `openai_api_key`
- Verify Python 3.8+ is installed: `python3 --version`
- Ensure virtual environment is activated: `which python3` should show venv path

**Logs to check**: stderr output shows validation errors

---

### Messages not received

**Problem**: Bot runs but doesn't respond to WhatsApp messages

**Solutions**:
- Verify Green API credentials are correct in `config/config.json`
- Check Green API instance status in dashboard (must be "authorized")
- Test Green API connection: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/test_real_api_connectivity.py -v`
- Review `logs/denidin.log` for polling errors
- Ensure `poll_interval_seconds` is reasonable (5-10 seconds recommended)
- Check WhatsApp business account is logged in on phone

**Logs to check**: `grep "polling" logs/denidin.log` or `grep "ERROR" logs/denidin.log`

---

### AI responses not sent

**Problem**: Bot receives messages but doesn't respond

**Solutions**:
- Verify OpenAI API key is valid: check https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- Check OpenAI account has credits: https://platform.openai.com/account/billing
- Review error logs for API quota/rate limit issues: `grep "OpenAI" logs/denidin.log`
- Test OpenAI connection: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/test_real_api_connectivity.py::TestRealOpenAPIConnectivity -v`
- Verify `ai_model` in config is available (e.g., "gpt-4o-mini", "gpt-3.5-turbo")
- Check for network/firewall issues blocking api.openai.com

**Logs to check**: `grep "AI response" logs/denidin.log` or `grep "OpenAI API" logs/denidin.log`

---

### Long messages truncated

**Problem**: AI responses are cut off at 4000 characters

**Solution**: This is expected behavior to fit WhatsApp's message limit. The bot appends "..." to indicate truncation.

**Workaround**: Ask shorter questions or request summaries

**Future**: Multi-message splitting will be added in Phase 2

---

### Bot crashes or hangs

**Problem**: Bot stops responding or exits unexpectedly

**Solutions**:
- Check for unhandled exceptions in logs: `grep "Exception" logs/denidin.log`
- Verify sufficient disk space for logs: `df -h`
- Review memory usage: `ps aux | grep denidin`
- Test with DEBUG logging: set `log_level: "DEBUG"` in config
- Run integration tests: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/ -v`

**Logs to check**: Last 50 lines of log: `tail -50 logs/denidin.log`

---

### Rate limiting errors

**Problem**: "Rate limit exceeded" errors in logs

**Solutions**:
- Wait 60 seconds before retrying (bot auto-retries with backoff)
- Reduce message volume or use a higher-tier OpenAI plan
- Check `max_retries` setting in config (default: 3)
- Monitor OpenAI usage dashboard

**Logs to check**: `grep "rate limit" logs/denidin.log`

---

### Group chat issues

**Problem**: Bot responds to all group messages or doesn't respond when mentioned

**Solutions**:
- Ensure bot name "DeniDin" appears in group messages to trigger response
- Check group chat detection: `grep "group" logs/denidin.log`
- Verify `is_bot_mentioned_in_group()` logic in `src/handlers/whatsapp_handler.py`
- Test with explicit mention: "Hey @DeniDin, ..."

**Logs to check**: `grep "mentioned" logs/denidin.log`

## FAQ

**Q: How much does it cost to run DeniDin?**  
A: Costs depend on message volume and OpenAI model:
- Green API: ~$10-20/month for WhatsApp Business API access
- OpenAI: ~$0.002 per 1K tokens (gpt-3.5-turbo) or ~$0.03 per 1K tokens (gpt-4o)
- For 100 messages/day with avg 500 tokens each: ~$3-150/month depending on model

**Q: Can I change the AI model?**  
A: Yes! Edit `ai_model` in `config/config.json`. Options: `gpt-4o-mini`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4o`. Restart bot after changing.

**Q: Why polling instead of webhooks?**  
A: Phase 1 uses polling for simplicity. Webhooks will be added in future phases for lower latency and resource usage.

**Q: How do I deploy to production?**  
A: See `DEPLOYMENT.md` for systemd service setup, log monitoring, and best practices.

**Q: Can DeniDin handle images or voice notes?**  
A: Not yet. Phase 1 only supports text messages. Media support planned for future phases.

## Next Steps (Future Phases)

- Phase 2: Conversation context and memory
- Phase 3: Multi-message splitting for long responses
- Phase 4: Enhanced error recovery and monitoring
- Phase 5: Webhook-based message reception
- Phase 6: Media support (images, voice notes, videos)

## License

[Your License Here]

## Support

For issues or questions, please refer to:
- Project documentation: `specs/001-whatsapp-chatbot-passthrough/`
- Deployment guide: `DEPLOYMENT.md`
- Contributing guidelines: `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Test suite: `python3 -m pytest tests/ -v`

Commit message:

Fix deployment scripts and remove all remaining 'bot' references
- Fixed run_denidin.sh to properly start application in background using nohup
- Fixed case-insensitive grep pattern to detect running Python processes
- Changed PID file from .bot.pid to .denidin.pid
- Changed log file reference from bot.log to denidin.log (actual log file)
- Added restart_denidin.sh script for convenient restarts
- Updated all scripts to display PID and process info when starting/stopping
- Removed all 'bot' references in comments and messages across:
  - run_denidin.sh, stop_denidin.sh, restart_denidin.sh
  - src/models/state.py, src/models/message.py
  - DEPLOYMENT.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, README.md
- Updated deployment scripts to use 'application' terminology
- Replaced denidin-bot directory references with denidin-app

Scripts now work correctly:
- ./run_denidin.sh - starts application with nohup, displays PID
- ./stop_denidin.sh - gracefully stops application, shows PID
- ./restart_denidin.sh - stops then starts with 2s cleanup delay

denidin-app/README.md, after:

# DeniDin - WhatsApp AI Chatbot with Memory

DeniDin is a WhatsApp chatbot with a sophisticated two-tier memory system. It receives messages through Green API, forwards them to OpenAI with conversation context and semantic memory recall, and returns intelligent, context-aware responses.

## Features

### Core Features (v1.0)
- ✅ Receive WhatsApp messages via Green API polling mechanism
- ✅ Forward messages to ChatGPT (OpenAI GPT-4o-mini)
- ✅ Send AI responses back to WhatsApp
- ✅ Sequential message processing (maintains order)
- ✅ Configurable polling interval and AI parameters
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling and logging
- ✅ Message truncation for long AI responses (4000 char limit)

### Memory System (Phases 1-6 Complete)
- ✅ **Session Management**: Conversation history with UUID-based sessions
- ✅ **Long-term Memory**: Semantic memory using ChromaDB with OpenAI embeddings
- ✅ **Automatic Recall**: AI automatically recalls relevant memories during conversations
- ✅ **Session Expiration**: 24-hour session timeout with automatic transfer to long-term memory
- ✅ **Startup Recovery**: Recovers orphaned sessions on bot restart
- ✅ **Role-based Token Limits**: 4,000 tokens for clients, 100,000 for godfather
- ✅ **Commands**: `/reset` to manually clear session and transfer to long-term memory
- ✅ **Feature Flag**: Controlled by `enable_memory_system` flag for safe deployment

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+ (Python 3.11 recommended)
- WhatsApp Business account with Green API credentials
- OpenAI API key

## Setup Instructions

> **Note for AI Assistants:** 
> - All commands must be run from `/Users/yaronl/personal/DeniDin/denidin-app/` directory
> - Always prefix commands with: `cd /Users/yaronl/personal/DeniDin/denidin-app &&`
> - Main git branch is `master`, not `main`

### 1. Clone and Navigate

```bash
cd denidin-app/
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

```bash
python -m venv venv

# Activate virtual environment:
# On macOS/Linux:
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Configure Credentials

Copy the example configuration file:

```bash
cp config/config.example.json config/config.json
```

Edit `config/config.json` and replace the placeholder values:

```json
{
  "green_api_instance_id": "YOUR_GREEN_API_INSTANCE_ID",
  "green_api_token": "YOUR_GREEN_API_TOKEN",
  "openai_api_key": "YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY",
  "ai_model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
  "system_message": "You are a helpful AI assistant named DeniDin.",
  "max_tokens": 1000,
  "temperature": 0.7,
  "log_level": "INFO",
  "poll_interval_seconds": 5,
  "max_retries": 3
}
```

**Configuration Options:**

- `green_api_instance_id`: Your Green API instance ID (from Green API dashboard)
- `green_api_token`: Your Green API token
- `openai_api_key`: Your OpenAI API key
- `ai_model`: OpenAI model to use (e.g., "gpt-3.5-turbo", "gpt-4o-mini")
- `system_message`: System prompt for the AI assistant
- `max_tokens`: Maximum tokens in AI response
- `temperature`: AI creativity level (0.0-1.0)
- `log_level`: Logging verbosity ("INFO" or "DEBUG")
- `poll_interval_seconds`: How often to check for new messages (default: 5)
- `max_retries`: Number of retry attempts for failed API calls
- `data_root`: Root directory for data storage (default: "data")
- `godfather_phone`: WhatsApp ID of godfather user (format: "PHONE@c.us")

**Memory System Configuration (Optional):**

```json
{
  "feature_flags": {
    "enable_memory_system": false
  },
  "memory": {
    "session": {
      "storage_dir": "data/sessions",
      "max_tokens_by_role": {
        "client": 4000,
        "godfather": 100000
      },
      "session_timeout_hours": 24
    },
    "longterm": {
      "enabled": true,
      "storage_dir": "data/memory",
      "collection_name": "godfather_memory",
      "embedding_model": "text-embedding-3-small",
      "top_k_results": 5,
      "min_similarity": 0.7
    }
  }
}
```

Memory system is **disabled by default** (`enable_memory_system: false`). To enable:
1. Set `enable_memory_system: true` in config
2. Configure `godfather_phone` with the admin WhatsApp ID
3. Restart the application

See [Memory System Usage](#memory-system-usage) section below for details.

**⚠️ IMPORTANT:** Never commit `config/config.json` to version control! It's already in `.gitignore`.

### 5. Run the Bot

```bash
./run_denidin.sh
```

The bot will:
1. Load configuration from `config/config.json`
2. Check for existing bot instances (prevents duplicates)
3. Start polling Green API for incoming WhatsApp messages
4. Forward messages to ChatGPT
5. Send AI responses back to WhatsApp
6. Log all activity to `logs/application.log`

**Alternative (manual start):**
```bash
python3 denidin.py
```

### 6. Stop the Bot

```bash
./stop_denidin.sh
```

This will gracefully shut down the application (sends SIGTERM, waits for cleanup).

**Alternative:**
Press `Ctrl+C` if running manually, or use `kill -TERM <PID>`.

## Architecture

### System Overview

```
┌─────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────┐
│  WhatsApp   │        │    DeniDin Bot       │        │   OpenAI     │
│   Business  │◄──────►│    (denidin.py)      │◄──────►│   ChatGPT    │
│   Account   │  Green │                      │  API   │              │
│             │  API   │  ┌────────────────┐  │        │              │
└─────────────┘        │  │ SessionManager │  │        └──────────────┘
                       │  │ (Conversation) │  │
                       │  └────────────────┘  │
                       │          │           │
                       │          ▼           │
                       │  ┌────────────────┐  │
                       │  │ MemoryManager  │  │
                       │  │  (ChromaDB)    │  │
                       │  └────────────────┘  │
                       └──────────────────────┘
```

### Component Flow (with Memory)

```
1. WhatsApp Message Received (Green API Polling)
        ↓
2. WhatsAppHandler.process_notification()
        ↓
3. Validate message type (text only)
        ↓
4. SessionManager.add_message(role="user")
        ↓
5. SessionManager.get_conversation_history()
        ↓
6. MemoryManager.recall() - Semantic search
        ↓
7. AIHandler.create_request() (with history + memories)
        ↓
8. OpenAI API call (with retry logic)
        ↓
9. SessionManager.add_message(role="assistant")
        ↓
10. AIHandler.get_response()
        ↓
11. Truncate if >4000 chars
        ↓
12. WhatsAppHandler.send_response()
        ↓
13. Log message tracking (message_id, timestamp)
```

### Key Components

- **denidin.py**: Main entry point, bot initialization, signal handling, /reset command
- **WhatsAppHandler**: Green API integration, message validation, response sending
- **AIHandler**: OpenAI integration, request formatting, error handling, memory integration
- **SessionManager**: Conversation history, token management, session expiration
- **MemoryManager**: ChromaDB semantic search, embedding generation, long-term storage
- **BotConfiguration**: JSON/YAML config loading, validation
- **Logger**: Rotating file + console logging with INFO/DEBUG levels
- **MessageState**: Track last processed message to prevent duplicates

## Project Structure

```
denidin-app/
├── denidin.py                  # Main entry point (223 lines)
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # This file
├── DEPLOYMENT.md              # Production deployment guide
├── .gitignore                 # Git ignore rules
├── .pylintrc                  # Linter configuration
├── mypy.ini                   # Type checker configuration
├── config/
│   ├── config.example.json    # Example configuration (template)
│   └── config.json            # Actual credentials (gitignored)
├── src/                       # Source code (500+ statements, 89% coverage)
│   ├── handlers/
│   │   ├── ai_handler.py      # OpenAI API + memory integration
│   │   └── whatsapp_handler.py # Green API integration
│   ├── memory/
│   │   ├── session_manager.py  # Conversation history
│   │   └── memory_manager.py   # ChromaDB semantic memory
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── config.py          # Configuration model
│   │   ├── message.py         # Message models
│   │   └── state.py           # State persistence
│   └── utils/
│       ├── logger.py          # Logging setup
│       └── state.py           # State utilities
├── data/                      # Runtime data (gitignored)
│   ├── sessions/              # Session JSON files
│   ├── memory/                # ChromaDB database
│   └── constitution/          # Constitution files
├── tests/                     # 212 tests (100% passing)
│   ├── unit/                  # 145 unit tests
│   ├── integration/           # 67 integration tests
│   └── fixtures/              # Test data
├── logs/                      # Application logs (gitignored)
└── htmlcov/                   # Coverage reports
```

## Memory System Usage

### Overview

The memory system consists of two layers:

1. **Short-term Memory (SessionManager)**: Stores recent conversation history per session
   - Automatically manages conversation context
   - Role-based token limits (4K for clients, 100K for godfather)
   - 24-hour session timeout
   - JSON storage in `data/sessions/`

2. **Long-term Memory (MemoryManager)**: Semantic memory across all conversations
   - ChromaDB vector database
   - OpenAI embeddings (text-embedding-3-small)
   - Automatic recall based on message relevance
   - Persistent storage in `data/memory/`

### How It Works

**For Users:**
1. Send messages normally via WhatsApp
2. Bot automatically maintains conversation context
3. Relevant past information is recalled automatically
4. No special commands needed for basic usage

**Session Lifecycle:**
```
New Message → Create/Resume Session → Add to History
                      ↓
              Get Recent History (within token limit)
                      ↓
              Search Long-term Memory
                      ↓
              Send to AI (history + memories + new message)
                      ↓
              Store AI Response in Session
                      ↓
              After 24h inactive → Transfer to Long-term Memory
```

### Commands

#### `/reset` - Clear Session and Transfer to Memory

Manually ends the current session and transfers it to long-term memory.

**Usage:**
```
/reset
```

**What happens:**
1. Current session is cleared
2. All conversation messages are summarized
3. Summary is stored in long-term memory
4. Fresh session starts
5. Confirmation message sent

**When to use:**
- Want to start a completely fresh conversation
- Finished a major topic and moving to something new
- Session feels cluttered or confusing

**Note:** Sessions automatically expire after 24 hours of inactivity, so manual `/reset` is rarely needed.

### Configuration

**Enable Memory System:**
```json
{
  "feature_flags": {
    "enable_memory_system": true
  },
  "godfather_phone": "972501234567@c.us"
}
```

**Memory Settings:**
```json
{
  "memory": {
    "session": {
      "max_tokens_by_role": {
        "client": 4000,
        "godfather": 100000
      },
      "session_timeout_hours": 24
    },
    "longterm": {
      "enabled": true,
      "top_k_results": 5,
      "min_similarity": 0.7
    }
  }
}
```

**Key Settings:**
- `max_tokens_by_role`: Controls how much conversation history to include
  - Client: 4,000 tokens (~15-20 message exchanges)
  - Godfather: 100,000 tokens (~300-400 exchanges)
- `session_timeout_hours`: When to auto-expire sessions (default: 24)
- `top_k_results`: Max memories to recall (default: 5)
- `min_similarity`: Minimum relevance score for recall (default: 0.7)

### Data Storage

**Session Files:**
- Location: `data/sessions/{session_id}/session.json`
- Format: JSON with messages, timestamps, metadata
- Cleanup: Expired sessions moved to `data/sessions/expired/`

**Long-term Memory:**
- Location: `data/memory/chroma.sqlite3`
- Format: ChromaDB vector database
- Embeddings: OpenAI text-embedding-3-small

**Backup Recommendations:**
- Backup `data/sessions/` for conversation history
- Backup `data/memory/` for long-term memories
- Both directories are gitignored by default

## Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
python3 -m pytest tests/ -v

# Run unit tests only
python3 -m pytest tests/unit/ -v

# Run integration tests only
python3 -m pytest tests/integration/ -v

# Run with coverage report
python3 -m pytest tests/ --cov=src --cov-report=html
# View coverage: open htmlcov/index.html
```

### Manual Testing

Send a WhatsApp message to your business number. DeniDin should:
1. Receive the message via Green API
2. Forward it to ChatGPT
3. Send the AI response back to WhatsApp
4. Log the interaction in `logs/denidin.log`

## Code Quality

- **Pylint Score**: 8.35/10
- **Test Coverage**: 89% (323 statements, 37 missed)
- **Type Hints**: Comprehensive (mypy configuration included)
- **Documentation**: Google-style docstrings on all public methods

Run quality checks:
```bash
# Linter
python3 -m pylint src/ denidin.py --rcfile=.pylintrc

# Type checker
python3 -m mypy src/ --config-file=mypy.ini
```

## Logging

- **INFO level**: Application events, incoming/outgoing messages, errors
- **DEBUG level**: Detailed parsing, state changes, API request/response details
- **File**: `logs/denidin.log` (rotates at 10MB, keeps 5 backups)
- **Console**: stderr output with same format

Change `log_level` in `config/config.json` to switch between levels.

## Troubleshooting

### Bot doesn't start

**Problem**: Bot exits immediately with error message

**Solutions**:
- Check that `config/config.json` exists: `ls -la config/`
- Verify JSON syntax is valid: `python3 -m json.tool config/config.json`
- Ensure all required fields present: `green_api_instance_id`, `green_api_token`, `openai_api_key`
- Verify Python 3.8+ is installed: `python3 --version`
- Ensure virtual environment is activated: `which python3` should show venv path

**Logs to check**: stderr output shows validation errors

---

### Messages not received

**Problem**: Bot runs but doesn't respond to WhatsApp messages

**Solutions**:
- Verify Green API credentials are correct in `config/config.json`
- Check Green API instance status in dashboard (must be "authorized")
- Test Green API connection: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/test_real_api_connectivity.py -v`
- Review `logs/denidin.log` for polling errors
- Ensure `poll_interval_seconds` is reasonable (5-10 seconds recommended)
- Check WhatsApp business account is logged in on phone

**Logs to check**: `grep "polling" logs/denidin.log` or `grep "ERROR" logs/denidin.log`

---

### AI responses not sent

**Problem**: Bot receives messages but doesn't respond

**Solutions**:
- Verify OpenAI API key is valid: check https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- Check OpenAI account has credits: https://platform.openai.com/account/billing
- Review error logs for API quota/rate limit issues: `grep "OpenAI" logs/denidin.log`
- Test OpenAI connection: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/test_real_api_connectivity.py::TestRealOpenAPIConnectivity -v`
- Verify `ai_model` in config is available (e.g., "gpt-4o-mini", "gpt-3.5-turbo")
- Check for network/firewall issues blocking api.openai.com

**Logs to check**: `grep "AI response" logs/denidin.log` or `grep "OpenAI API" logs/denidin.log`

---

### Long messages truncated

**Problem**: AI responses are cut off at 4000 characters

**Solution**: This is expected behavior to fit WhatsApp's message limit. The bot appends "..." to indicate truncation.

**Workaround**: Ask shorter questions or request summaries

**Future**: Multi-message splitting will be added in Phase 2

---

### Bot crashes or hangs

**Problem**: Bot stops responding or exits unexpectedly

**Solutions**:
- Check for unhandled exceptions in logs: `grep "Exception" logs/denidin.log`
- Verify sufficient disk space for logs: `df -h`
- Review memory usage: `ps aux | grep denidin`
- Test with DEBUG logging: set `log_level: "DEBUG"` in config
- Run integration tests: `python3 -m pytest tests/integration/ -v`

**Logs to check**: Last 50 lines of log: `tail -50 logs/denidin.log`

---

### Rate limiting errors

**Problem**: "Rate limit exceeded" errors in logs

**Solutions**:
- Wait 60 seconds before retrying (bot auto-retries with backoff)
- Reduce message volume or use a higher-tier OpenAI plan
- Check `max_retries` setting in config (default: 3)
- Monitor OpenAI usage dashboard

**Logs to check**: `grep "rate limit" logs/denidin.log`

---

### Group chat issues

**Problem**: Bot responds to all group messages or doesn't respond when mentioned

**Solutions**:
- Ensure bot name "DeniDin" appears in group messages to trigger response
- Check group chat detection: `grep "group" logs/denidin.log`
- Verify `is_bot_mentioned_in_group()` logic in `src/handlers/whatsapp_handler.py`
- Test with explicit mention: "Hey @DeniDin, ..."

**Logs to check**: `grep "mentioned" logs/denidin.log`

## FAQ

**Q: How much does it cost to run DeniDin?**  
A: Costs depend on message volume and OpenAI model:
- Green API: ~$10-20/month for WhatsApp Business API access
- OpenAI: ~$0.002 per 1K tokens (gpt-3.5-turbo) or ~$0.03 per 1K tokens (gpt-4o)
- For 100 messages/day with avg 500 tokens each: ~$3-150/month depending on model

**Q: Can I change the AI model?**  
A: Yes! Edit `ai_model` in `config/config.json`. Options: `gpt-4o-mini`, `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4o`. Restart bot after changing.

**Q: Why polling instead of webhooks?**  
A: Phase 1 uses polling for simplicity. Webhooks will be added in future phases for lower latency and resource usage.

**Q: How do I deploy to production?**  
A: See `DEPLOYMENT.md` for systemd service setup, log monitoring, and best practices.

**Q: Can DeniDin handle images or voice notes?**  
A: Not yet. Phase 1 only supports text messages. Media support planned for future phases.

## Next Steps (Future Phases)

- Phase 2: Conversation context and memory
- Phase 3: Multi-message splitting for long responses
- Phase 4: Enhanced error recovery and monitoring
- Phase 5: Webhook-based message reception
- Phase 6: Media support (images, voice notes, videos)

## License

[Your License Here]

## Support

For issues or questions, please refer to:
- Project documentation: `specs/001-whatsapp-chatbot-passthrough/`
- Deployment guide: `DEPLOYMENT.md`
- Contributing guidelines: `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Test suite: `python3 -m pytest tests/ -v`
